aws/arcgis-enterprise-k8s/organization/README.md, before:

<!-- BEGIN_TF_DOCS -->
# Organization Terraform Module for ArcGIS Enterprise on Kubernetes

The module deploys ArcGIS Enterprise on Kubernetes in Amazon EKS cluster
and creates an ArcGIS Enterprise organization.

The module uses [Helm Charts for ArcGIS Enterprise on Kubernetes](https://links.esri.com/enterprisekuberneteshelmcharts/1.2.0/deploy-guide).

## Requirements

On the machine where Terraform is executed:

* AWS credentials must be configured.
* AWS region must be specified by AWS_DEFAULT_REGION environment variable.
* EKS cluster configuration information must be provided in ~/.kube/config file.

## Providers

| Name | Version |
|------|---------|
| aws | ~> 5.22 |
| helm | ~> 2.12 |
| local | n/a |

## Resources

| Name | Type |
|------|------|
| [helm_release.arcgis_enterprise](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/helm/latest/docs/resources/release) | resource |
| [local_sensitive_file.cloud_config_json_file](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/local/latest/docs/resources/sensitive_file) | resource |
| [local_sensitive_file.license_file](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/local/latest/docs/resources/sensitive_file) | resource |
| [aws_caller_identity.current](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/data-sources/caller_identity) | data source |
| [aws_region.current](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/data-sources/region) | data source |

## Inputs

| Name | Description | Type | Default | Required |
|------|-------------|------|---------|:--------:|
| admin_email | ArcGIS Enterprise on Kubernetes organization administrator account email | `string` | n/a | yes |
| admin_first_name | ArcGIS Enterprise on Kubernetes organization administrator account first name | `string` | n/a | yes |
| admin_last_name | ArcGIS Enterprise on Kubernetes organization administrator account last name | `string` | n/a | yes |
| admin_password | ArcGIS Enterprise on Kubernetes organization administrator account password | `string` | n/a | yes |
| admin_username | ArcGIS Enterprise on Kubernetes organization administrator account username | `string` | `"siteadmin"` | no |
| arcgis_enterprise_context | Context path to be used in the URL for ArcGIS Enterprise on Kubernetes | `string` | `"arcgis"` | no |
| arcgis_enterprise_fqdn | The fully qualified domain name (FQDN) to access ArcGIS Enterprise on Kubernetes | `string` | n/a | yes |
| arcgis_version | ArcGIS Enterprise version | `string` | `"11.2.0"` | no |
| authorization_file_path | ArcGIS Enterprise on Kubernetes authorization file path | `string` | n/a | yes |
| cloud_config_json_file_path | ArcGIS Enterprise on Kubernetes cloud configuration JSON file path | `string` | `null` | no |
| common_verbose | Enable verbose install logging | `bool` | `false` | no |
| configure_enterprise_org | Configure ArcGIS Enterprise on Kubernetes organization | `bool` | `true` | no |
| configure_wait_time_min | Organization admin URL validation timeout in minutes | `number` | `15` | no |
| deployment_id | ArcGIS Enterprise deployment Id | `string` | `"arcgis-enterprise-k8s"` | no |
| helm_charts_version | Helm Charts for ArcGIS Enterprise on Kubernetes version | `string` | `"1.2.0"` | no |
| k8s_cluster_domain | Kubernetes cluster domain | `string` | `"cluster.local"` | no |
| license_type_id | User type ID for the primary administrator account | `string` | `"creatorUT"` | no |
| log_retention_max_days | Number of days logs will be retained by the organization | `number` | `60` | no |
| log_setting | ArcGIS Enterprise on Kubernetes log level | `string` | `"INFO"` | no |
| mandatory_update_target_id | Patch ID of required update | `string` | `""` | no |
| registry_repo | Container registry context | `string` | `"esridocker"` | no |
| security_question_answer | ArcGIS Enterprise on Kubernetes organization administrator account security question answer | `string` | n/a | yes |
| security_question_index | ArcGIS Enterprise on Kubernetes organization administrator account security question index | `number` | `1` | no |
| site_id | ArcGIS Enterprise site Id | `string` | `"arcgis-enterprise"` | no |
| storage | Storage properties for the data stores | ```map(object({ type = string size = string class = string label1 = string label2 = string }))``` | ```{ "grafana": { "class": "gp3", "label1": "", "label2": "", "size": "16Gi", "type": "DYNAMIC" }, "indexer": { "class": "gp3", "label1": "", "label2": "", "size": "16Gi", "type": "DYNAMIC" }, "memory": { "class": "gp3", "label1": "", "label2": "", "size": "16Gi", "type": "DYNAMIC" }, "object": { "class": "gp3", "label1": "", "label2": "", "size": "32Gi", "type": "DYNAMIC" }, "prometheus": { "class": "gp3", "label1": "", "label2": "", "size": "30Gi", "type": "DYNAMIC" }, "queue": { "class": "gp3", "label1": "", "label2": "", "size": "16Gi", "type": "DYNAMIC" }, "relational": { "class": "gp3", "label1": "", "label2": "", "size": "16Gi", "type": "DYNAMIC" }, "sharing": { "class": "gp3", "label1": "", "label2": "", "size": "16Gi", "type": "DYNAMIC" } }``` | no |
| system_arch_profile | ArcGIS Enterprise on Kubernetes architecture profile | `string` | `"standard-availability"` | no |
| upgrade_token | ArcGIS Enterprise organization administrator account token | `string` | `"add_token_here"` | no |

## Outputs

| Name | Description |
|------|-------------|
| arcgis_enterprise_manager_url | ArcGIS Enterprise Manager URL |
| arcgis_enterprise_portal_url | ArcGIS Enterprise Portal URL |
<!-- END_TF_DOCS -->

Commit message:

#11 Updated arcgis-site-core and K8s workflows

aws/arcgis-enterprise-k8s/organization/README.md, after:

<!-- BEGIN_TF_DOCS -->
# Organization Terraform Module for ArcGIS Enterprise on Kubernetes

The module deploys ArcGIS Enterprise on Kubernetes in Amazon EKS cluster
and creates an ArcGIS Enterprise organization.

The module uses [Helm Charts for ArcGIS Enterprise on Kubernetes](https://links.esri.com/enterprisekuberneteshelmcharts/1.2.0/deploy-guide).

The following table explains the compatibility of chart versions and ArcGIS Enterprise on Kubernetes.

Helm Chart Version | ArcGIS Enterprise version | Initial deployment using `helm install` command | Release upgrade using `helm upgrade` command | Patch update using `helm upgrade` command | Description |
--- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
v1.1.0 | 11.1.0.3923 | Supported     | Supported      | Not applicable | Helm chart for deploying 11.1 or upgrading 11.0 to 11.1 |
v1.1.4 | 11.1.0.4115 | Not supported | Not applicable | Supported      | Helm chart to apply the 11.1 Q4 2023 Bug Fix Update |
v1.2.0 | 11.2.0.5207 | Supported     | Supported      | Not applicable | Helm chart for deploying 11.2 or upgrading 11.1 to 11.2 |
v1.2.1 | 11.2.0.5500 | Not supported | Not applicable | Supported      | Helm chart to apply the 11.2 Help Language Pack Update |

## Requirements

On the machine where Terraform is executed:

* AWS credentials must be configured.
* AWS region must be specified by AWS_DEFAULT_REGION environment variable.
* EKS cluster configuration information must be provided in ~/.kube/config file.

## Providers

| Name | Version |
|------|---------|
| aws | ~> 5.22 |
| helm | ~> 2.12 |
| local | n/a |

## Resources

| Name | Type |
|------|------|
| [helm_release.arcgis_enterprise](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/helm/latest/docs/resources/release) | resource |
| [local_sensitive_file.cloud_config_json_file](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/local/latest/docs/resources/sensitive_file) | resource |
| [local_sensitive_file.license_file](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/local/latest/docs/resources/sensitive_file) | resource |
| [aws_caller_identity.current](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/data-sources/caller_identity) | data source |
| [aws_region.current](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/data-sources/region) | data source |

## Inputs

| Name | Description | Type | Default | Required |
|------|-------------|------|---------|:--------:|
| admin_email | ArcGIS Enterprise on Kubernetes organization administrator account email | `string` | n/a | yes |
| admin_first_name | ArcGIS Enterprise on Kubernetes organization administrator account first name | `string` | n/a | yes |
| admin_last_name | ArcGIS Enterprise on Kubernetes organization administrator account last name | `string` | n/a | yes |
| admin_password | ArcGIS Enterprise on Kubernetes organization administrator account password | `string` | n/a | yes |
| admin_username | ArcGIS Enterprise on Kubernetes organization administrator account username | `string` | `"siteadmin"` | no |
| arcgis_enterprise_context | Context path to be used in the URL for ArcGIS Enterprise on Kubernetes | `string` | `"arcgis"` | no |
| arcgis_enterprise_fqdn | The fully qualified domain name (FQDN) to access ArcGIS Enterprise on Kubernetes | `string` | n/a | yes |
| authorization_file_path | ArcGIS Enterprise on Kubernetes authorization file path | `string` | n/a | yes |
| cloud_config_json_file_path | ArcGIS Enterprise on Kubernetes cloud configuration JSON file path | `string` | `null` | no |
| common_verbose | Enable verbose install logging | `bool` | `false` | no |
| configure_enterprise_org | Configure ArcGIS Enterprise on Kubernetes organization | `bool` | `true` | no |
| configure_wait_time_min | Organization admin URL validation timeout in minutes | `number` | `15` | no |
| deployment_id | ArcGIS Enterprise deployment Id | `string` | `"arcgis-enterprise-k8s"` | no |
| helm_charts_version | Helm Charts for ArcGIS Enterprise on Kubernetes version | `string` | `"1.2.0"` | no |
| image_repository_prefix | Prefix of images in ECR repositories | `string` | `"docker-hub/esridocker"` | no |
| k8s_cluster_domain | Kubernetes cluster domain | `string` | `"cluster.local"` | no |
| license_type_id | User type ID for the primary administrator account | `string` | `"creatorUT"` | no |
| log_retention_max_days | Number of days logs will be retained by the organization | `number` | `60` | no |
| log_setting | ArcGIS Enterprise on Kubernetes log level | `string` | `"INFO"` | no |
| mandatory_update_target_id | Patch ID of required update | `string` | `""` | no |
| security_question_answer | ArcGIS Enterprise on Kubernetes organization administrator account security question answer | `string` | n/a | yes |
| security_question_index | ArcGIS Enterprise on Kubernetes organization administrator account security question index | `number` | `1` | no |
| site_id | ArcGIS Enterprise site Id | `string` | `"arcgis-enterprise"` | no |
| storage | Storage properties for the data stores | ```map(object({ type = string size = string class = string label1 = string label2 = string }))``` | ```{ "grafana": { "class": "gp3", "label1": "", "label2": "", "size": "16Gi", "type": "DYNAMIC" }, "indexer": { "class": "gp3", "label1": "", "label2": "", "size": "16Gi", "type": "DYNAMIC" }, "memory": { "class": "gp3", "label1": "", "label2": "", "size": "16Gi", "type": "DYNAMIC" }, "object": { "class": "gp3", "label1": "", "label2": "", "size": "32Gi", "type": "DYNAMIC" }, "prometheus": { "class": "gp3", "label1": "", "label2": "", "size": "30Gi", "type": "DYNAMIC" }, "queue": { "class": "gp3", "label1": "", "label2": "", "size": "16Gi", "type": "DYNAMIC" }, "relational": { "class": "gp3", "label1": "", "label2": "", "size": "16Gi", "type": "DYNAMIC" }, "sharing": { "class": "gp3", "label1": "", "label2": "", "size": "16Gi", "type": "DYNAMIC" } }``` | no |
| system_arch_profile | ArcGIS Enterprise on Kubernetes architecture profile | `string` | `"standard-availability"` | no |
| upgrade_token | ArcGIS Enterprise organization administrator account token | `string` | `"add_token_here"` | no |

## Outputs

| Name | Description |
|------|-------------|
| arcgis_enterprise_manager_url | ArcGIS Enterprise Manager URL |
| arcgis_enterprise_portal_url | ArcGIS Enterprise Portal URL |
<!-- END_TF_DOCS -->
