aws/arcgis-server-linux/infrastructure/README.md, before:

<!-- BEGIN_TF_DOCS -->
# Infrastructure Terraform Module for ArcGIS Server on Linux

The Terraform module provisions AWS resources for highly available ArcGIS Server deployment on Linux platform.

![Infrastructure for ArcGIS Server on Linux](arcgis-server-linux-infrastructure.png "Infrastructure for ArcGIS Server on Linux")  

The module launches two SSM managed EC2 instances in the private VPC subnets or subnets specified by subnet_ids input variable.
The instances are launched from image retrieved from '/arcgis/${var.site_id}/images/${var.os}/${var.deployment_id}' SSM parameter.
The image must be created by the Packer Template for ArcGIS Server on Linux AMI.

For the primary EC2 instance the module creates "A" records in the VPC Route53 private hosted zone to make the instance addressable using permanent DNS names.

> Note that the EC2 instance will be terminated and recreated if the infrastructure terraform module is applied again after the SSM parameter value was modified by a new image build.

A highly available EFS file system is created and mounted to the EC2 instances.

The module creates an Application Load Balancer (ALB) with listeners for ports 80, 443, and 6443 and target groups for the listeners that target the EC2 instances.
Internet-facing load balancer is configured to use two of the public VPC subnets, while internal load balancer uses the private subnets.

The deployment's Monitoring Subsystem consists of:

* An SNS topic and a CloudWatch alarms that monitor the target groups and post to the SNS topic if the number of unhealthy instances in nonzero.
* A CloudWatch log group
* CloudWatch agent on the EC2 instances that sends the system logs to the log group as well as metrics fo resource utilization on the EC2 instances.
* A CloudWatch dashboard that displays the CloudWatch alerts, metrics, and logs of the deployment.

All the created AWS resources are tagged with ArcGISSiteId and ArcGISDeploymentId tags.

## Requirements

On the machine where Terraform is executed:

* Python 3.8 or later with [AWS SDK for Python (Boto3)](https://aws.amazon.com/sdk-for-python/) package must be installed.
* Path to aws/scripts directory must be added to PYTHONPATH.
* AWS credentials must be configured.
* AWS region must be specified by AWS_DEFAULT_REGION environment variable.

Before creating the infrastructure, an SSL certificate for the ArcGIS Server deployment FQDN
must be imported into or issued by AWS Certificate Manager service in the AWS account. The certificate's
ARN specified by "ssl_certificate_arn" input variable will be used to configure HTTPS listeners of the load balancer.

If deployment_fqdn and hosted_zone_id input variables are specified,
the module creates CNAME records in the hosted zone that routes the deployment FQDN to the load balancer DNS name.
Otherwise, after creating the infrastructure, the domain name must be pointed to the DNS name of Application Load Balancer
exported by "alb_dns_name" output value of the module.

> Note that a hosted zone can contain only one record for each domain name. Use different hosted zones for multiple deployments
  with the same deployment_fqdn, or configure the DNS records outside of the module.

## Troubleshooting

Use Session Manager connection in AWS Console for SSH access to the EC2 instances.

The SSM commands output stored in the logs S3 bucket is copied in the Terraform stdout.

## SSM Parameters

The module uses the following SSM parameters:

| SSM parameter name | Description |
|--------------------|-------------|
| /arcgis/${var.site_id}/iam/instance-profile-name | IAM instance profile name |
| /arcgis/${var.site_id}/images/${var.os}/${var.deployment_id} | Id of the built AMI |
| /arcgis/${var.site_id}/s3/logs | S3 bucket for SSM commands output |
| /arcgis/${var.site_id}/vpc/public-subnet-1 | public VPC subnet 1 Id |
| /arcgis/${var.site_id}/vpc/public-subnet-2 | public VPC subnet 2 Id |
| /arcgis/${var.site_id}/vpc/private-subnet-1 | private VPC subnet 1 Id |
| /arcgis/${var.site_id}/vpc/private-subnet-2 | private VPC subnet 2 Id |
| /arcgis/${var.site_id}/vpc/hosted-zone-id | VPC hosted zone Id |
| /arcgis/${var.site_id}/vpc/id | VPC Id |

## Providers

| Name | Version |
|------|---------|
| aws | ~> 5.48 |

## Modules

| Name | Source | Version |
|------|--------|---------|
| cw_agent | ../../modules/cw_agent | n/a |
| dashboard | ../../modules/dashboard | n/a |
| nfs_mount | ../../modules/nfs_mount | n/a |
| private_server_https_alb_target | ../../modules/alb_target_group | n/a |
| security_group | ../../modules/security_group | n/a |
| server_https_alb_target | ../../modules/alb_target_group | n/a |

## Resources

| Name | Type |
|------|------|
| [aws_efs_file_system.fileserver](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/resources/efs_file_system) | resource |
| [aws_efs_mount_target.fileserver](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/resources/efs_mount_target) | resource |
| [aws_instance.nodes](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/resources/instance) | resource |
| [aws_instance.primary](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/resources/instance) | resource |
| [aws_lb.alb](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/resources/lb) | resource |
| [aws_lb_listener.arcgis_server_https](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/resources/lb_listener) | resource |
| [aws_lb_listener.http](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/resources/lb_listener) | resource |
| [aws_lb_listener.https](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/resources/lb_listener) | resource |
| [aws_lb_target_group.default](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/resources/lb_target_group) | resource |
| [aws_route53_record.arcgis_erver](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/resources/route53_record) | resource |
| [aws_route53_record.primary](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/resources/route53_record) | resource |
| [aws_security_group.arcgis_alb](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/resources/security_group) | resource |
| [aws_security_group_rule.allow_arcgis_server_https](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/resources/security_group_rule) | resource |
| [aws_security_group_rule.allow_http](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/resources/security_group_rule) | resource |
| [aws_security_group_rule.allow_https](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/resources/security_group_rule) | resource |
| [aws_ssm_parameter.alb_security_group_id](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/resources/ssm_parameter) | resource |
| [aws_ami.ami](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/data-sources/ami) | data source |
| [aws_region.current](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/data-sources/region) | data source |
| [aws_ssm_parameter.ami](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/data-sources/ssm_parameter) | data source |
| [aws_ssm_parameter.hosted_zone_id](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/data-sources/ssm_parameter) | data source |
| [aws_ssm_parameter.instance_profile_name](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/data-sources/ssm_parameter) | data source |
| [aws_ssm_parameter.private_subnets](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/data-sources/ssm_parameter) | data source |
| [aws_ssm_parameter.public_subnets](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/data-sources/ssm_parameter) | data source |
| [aws_ssm_parameter.vpc_id](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/data-sources/ssm_parameter) | data source |

## Inputs

| Name | Description | Type | Default | Required |
|------|-------------|------|---------|:--------:|
| client_cidr_blocks | Client CIDR blocks | `list(string)` | ```[ "0.0.0.0/0" ]``` | no |
| deployment_fqdn | Fully qualified domain name of the ArcGIS Server deployment | `string` | `null` | no |
| deployment_id | ArcGIS Server deployment Id | `string` | `"arcgis-server"` | no |
| hosted_zone_id | The Route 53 hosted zone ID for the deployment FQDN | `string` | `null` | no |
| instance_type | EC2 instance type | `string` | `"m6i.2xlarge"` | no |
| internal_load_balancer | If true, the load balancer scheme is set to 'internal' | `bool` | `false` | no |
| key_name | EC2 key pair name | `string` | n/a | yes |
| node_count | Number of node EC2 instances | `number` | `1` | no |
| os | Operating system id (rhel8\|rhel9) | `string` | `"rhel8"` | no |
| root_volume_size | Root EBS volume size in GB | `number` | `1024` | no |
| site_id | ArcGIS Enterprise site Id | `string` | `"arcgis-enterprise"` | no |
| ssl_certificate_arn | SSL certificate ARN for HTTPS listeners of the load balancer | `string` | n/a | yes |
| ssl_policy | Security Policy that should be assigned to the ALB to control the SSL protocol and ciphers | `string` | `"ELBSecurityPolicy-TLS13-1-2-2021-06"` | no |
| subnet_ids | EC2 instances subnet IDs (by default, the first two private VPC subnets are used) | `list(string)` | `[]` | no |

## Outputs

| Name | Description |
|------|-------------|
| alb_dns_name | DNS name of the application load balancer |
| security_group_id | EC2 security group Id |
<!-- END_TF_DOCS -->

Commit message:

#104 Support Web Adaptor in arcgis-server-linux template

aws/arcgis-server-linux/infrastructure/README.md, after:

<!-- BEGIN_TF_DOCS -->
# Infrastructure Terraform Module for ArcGIS Server on Linux

The Terraform module provisions AWS resources for highly available ArcGIS Server deployment on Linux platform.

![Infrastructure for ArcGIS Server on Linux](arcgis-server-linux-infrastructure.png "Infrastructure for ArcGIS Server on Linux")  

The module launches two SSM managed EC2 instances in the private VPC subnets or subnets specified by subnet_ids input variable.
The instances are launched from image retrieved from '/arcgis/${var.site_id}/images/${var.os}/${var.deployment_id}' SSM parameter.
The image must be created by the Packer Template for ArcGIS Server on Linux AMI.

For the primary EC2 instances the module creates "A" record in the VPC Route53 private hosted zone to make the instance addressable using permanent DNS names.

> Note that the EC2 instance will be terminated and recreated if the infrastructure terraform module is applied again after the SSM parameter value was modified by a new image build.

A highly available EFS file system is created and mounted to the EC2 instances.

The module creates an Application Load Balancer (ALB) with listeners for ports 80, 443, and 6443 and target groups for the listeners that target the EC2 instances.
Internet-facing load balancer is configured to use two of the public VPC subnets, while internal load balancer uses the private subnets.

By default the HTTPS listener on port 443 is forwarded to instance port 6443. Set the instance_https_port input variable to 443, if ArcGIS Web Adaptor on port 443 will be used with ArcGIS Server.

The deployment's Monitoring Subsystem consists of:

* An SNS topic and a CloudWatch alarms that monitor the target groups and post to the SNS topic if the number of unhealthy instances in nonzero.
* A CloudWatch log group
* CloudWatch agent on the EC2 instances that sends the system logs to the log group as well as metrics fo resource utilization on the EC2 instances.
* A CloudWatch dashboard that displays the CloudWatch alerts, metrics, and logs of the deployment.

All the created AWS resources are tagged with ArcGISSiteId and ArcGISDeploymentId tags.

## Requirements

On the machine where Terraform is executed:

* Python 3.8 or later with [AWS SDK for Python (Boto3)](https://aws.amazon.com/sdk-for-python/) package must be installed.
* Path to aws/scripts directory must be added to PYTHONPATH.
* AWS credentials must be configured.
* AWS region must be specified by AWS_DEFAULT_REGION environment variable.

Before creating the infrastructure, an SSL certificate for the ArcGIS Server deployment FQDN
must be imported into or issued by AWS Certificate Manager service in the AWS account. The certificate's
ARN specified by "ssl_certificate_arn" input variable will be used to configure HTTPS listeners of the load balancer.

If deployment_fqdn and hosted_zone_id input variables are specified,
the module creates CNAME records in the hosted zone that routes the deployment FQDN to the load balancer DNS name.
Otherwise, after creating the infrastructure, the domain name must be pointed to the DNS name of Application Load Balancer
exported by "alb_dns_name" output value of the module.

> Note that a hosted zone can contain only one record for each domain name. Use different hosted zones for multiple deployments
  with the same deployment_fqdn, or configure the DNS records outside of the module.

## Troubleshooting

Use Session Manager connection in AWS Console for SSH access to the EC2 instances.

The SSM commands output stored in the logs S3 bucket is copied in the Terraform stdout.

## SSM Parameters

The module uses the following SSM parameters:

| SSM parameter name | Description |
|--------------------|-------------|
| /arcgis/${var.site_id}/iam/instance-profile-name | IAM instance profile name |
| /arcgis/${var.site_id}/images/${var.os}/${var.deployment_id} | Id of the built AMI |
| /arcgis/${var.site_id}/s3/logs | S3 bucket for SSM commands output |
| /arcgis/${var.site_id}/vpc/public-subnet-1 | public VPC subnet 1 Id |
| /arcgis/${var.site_id}/vpc/public-subnet-2 | public VPC subnet 2 Id |
| /arcgis/${var.site_id}/vpc/private-subnet-1 | private VPC subnet 1 Id |
| /arcgis/${var.site_id}/vpc/private-subnet-2 | private VPC subnet 2 Id |
| /arcgis/${var.site_id}/vpc/hosted-zone-id | VPC hosted zone Id |
| /arcgis/${var.site_id}/vpc/id | VPC Id |

## Providers

| Name | Version |
|------|---------|
| aws | ~> 5.48 |

## Modules

| Name | Source | Version |
|------|--------|---------|
| cw_agent | ../../modules/cw_agent | n/a |
| dashboard | ../../modules/dashboard | n/a |
| nfs_mount | ../../modules/nfs_mount | n/a |
| private_server_https_alb_target | ../../modules/alb_target_group | n/a |
| security_group | ../../modules/security_group | n/a |
| server_https_alb_target | ../../modules/alb_target_group | n/a |

## Resources

| Name | Type |
|------|------|
| [aws_efs_file_system.fileserver](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/resources/efs_file_system) | resource |
| [aws_efs_mount_target.fileserver](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/resources/efs_mount_target) | resource |
| [aws_instance.nodes](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/resources/instance) | resource |
| [aws_instance.primary](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/resources/instance) | resource |
| [aws_lb.alb](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/resources/lb) | resource |
| [aws_lb_listener.arcgis_server_https](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/resources/lb_listener) | resource |
| [aws_lb_listener.http](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/resources/lb_listener) | resource |
| [aws_lb_listener.https](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/resources/lb_listener) | resource |
| [aws_lb_target_group.default](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/resources/lb_target_group) | resource |
| [aws_route53_record.arcgis_server](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/resources/route53_record) | resource |
| [aws_route53_record.primary](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/resources/route53_record) | resource |
| [aws_security_group.arcgis_alb](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/resources/security_group) | resource |
| [aws_security_group_rule.allow_arcgis_server_https](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/resources/security_group_rule) | resource |
| [aws_security_group_rule.allow_http](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/resources/security_group_rule) | resource |
| [aws_security_group_rule.allow_https](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/resources/security_group_rule) | resource |
| [aws_ssm_parameter.alb_security_group_id](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/resources/ssm_parameter) | resource |
| [aws_ami.ami](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/data-sources/ami) | data source |
| [aws_region.current](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/data-sources/region) | data source |
| [aws_ssm_parameter.ami](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/data-sources/ssm_parameter) | data source |
| [aws_ssm_parameter.hosted_zone_id](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/data-sources/ssm_parameter) | data source |
| [aws_ssm_parameter.instance_profile_name](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/data-sources/ssm_parameter) | data source |
| [aws_ssm_parameter.private_subnets](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/data-sources/ssm_parameter) | data source |
| [aws_ssm_parameter.public_subnets](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/data-sources/ssm_parameter) | data source |
| [aws_ssm_parameter.vpc_id](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/data-sources/ssm_parameter) | data source |

## Inputs

| Name | Description | Type | Default | Required |
|------|-------------|------|---------|:--------:|
| client_cidr_blocks | Client CIDR blocks | `list(string)` | ```[ "0.0.0.0/0" ]``` | no |
| deployment_fqdn | Fully qualified domain name of the ArcGIS Server deployment | `string` | `null` | no |
| deployment_id | ArcGIS Server deployment Id | `string` | `"arcgis-server"` | no |
| hosted_zone_id | The Route 53 hosted zone ID for the deployment FQDN | `string` | `null` | no |
| instance_https_port | ArcGIS Server instance HTTPS port | `number` | `6443` | no |
| instance_type | EC2 instance type | `string` | `"m6i.2xlarge"` | no |
| internal_load_balancer | If true, the load balancer scheme is set to 'internal' | `bool` | `false` | no |
| key_name | EC2 key pair name | `string` | n/a | yes |
| node_count | Number of node EC2 instances | `number` | `1` | no |
| os | Operating system id (rhel8\|rhel9) | `string` | `"rhel8"` | no |
| root_volume_size | Root EBS volume size in GB | `number` | `1024` | no |
| site_id | ArcGIS Enterprise site Id | `string` | `"arcgis-enterprise"` | no |
| ssl_certificate_arn | SSL certificate ARN for HTTPS listeners of the load balancer | `string` | n/a | yes |
| ssl_policy | Security Policy that should be assigned to the ALB to control the SSL protocol and ciphers | `string` | `"ELBSecurityPolicy-TLS13-1-2-2021-06"` | no |
| subnet_ids | EC2 instances subnet IDs (by default, the first two private VPC subnets are used) | `list(string)` | `[]` | no |
| web_context | Services web context | `string` | `"arcgis"` | no |

## Outputs

| Name | Description |
|------|-------------|
| alb_dns_name | DNS name of the application load balancer |
| security_group_id | EC2 security group Id |
<!-- END_TF_DOCS -->
